---
layout: post
title: And the winner is….!
---

<h5 class="post">And the winner is….!</h5> 

 <section class="rtcl">
<p>Technology experts, designers and cycle specialists, the Evelo E-bike captivates them all.
It has already won an array prizes and awards all over the world in various competitions and in different categories.
One distinction of particular note was winning the German Design Award 2016 – one of the most prestigious design competitions worldwide. The Evelo E-bike can now be talked of in design terms in the same breath as the Audi Q7 or the ICx high-speed train, both of which also received awards. The jury commended the constructive ideas and reductive design, which sets it apart from other e-bikes.</p>

<p>The Evelo E-bike also impressed other expert juries in the design arena. Last year, the E-bike received the coveted iF DESIGN AWARD in the Products category. The iF DESIGN AWARD has been made annually since 1953 and celebrates outstanding design achievements. An astonishing 5,000 designs from 70 countries were submitted in 2015. The E-bike inspired the jury with its symbiosis of functionality and design, but in particular for becoming the world’s first digitally connected e-bike.</p>

<p>The Taipei Cycle Award is where the entire bike industry comes together, with practically all manufacturers and makers of every kind of bike attending. This award is still a relative “newcomer”, but 185 products have already been submitted by companies and designers. The Evelo E-bike is among those to earn the status of prizewinner.</p>

<p>Together with the Eurobike GOLD Award 2014, the Red Dot Design Award and the “Outside Gear-of-the Show Interbike Award”, the Evelo E-bike is the e-bike with the most important and most numerous awards in the industry. These awards confirm that the bike responds to a great need for a symbiosis of design and technology. </p>
</section>