---
layout: post
title: A conversation with the designer of the Evelo-bike
---

<h5 class="post">The designer of the Evelo-bike</h5>


<section class="rtcl">
 <p>If something works without needing explanation, it's well designed. 
And if it also looks good, then it's very well designed.
</p>
<p>He was keeping his secrets to himself, that much was clear from the start. Nor did he offer a glimpse inside his black 19x25 cm Moleskine. The rubber band stayed on and he never picked up the pen that went with it. Oh yes, the pen: an ordinary BIC! And this is used for good design? Design is all about thinking, says Christof Bigler, the pen is only there to help get your thoughts down on paper. He went on to say that the BIC is perfect for this as it works anytime, anywhere, and has even written world history: Mikhail Gorbachev used the same BIC to sign important treaties that ended the Cold War.
You only have to look around to recognize good design. You can tell it's good simply because it needs no explanation, the shapes and colors are taken for granted. This is true of the simplest things. If you sit at a table, for example, take hold of your knife and fork and everything works as if with a mind of its own, winding the spaghetti is effortless and the meat cuts like butter, you see this as completely normal, nothing strikes you as unusual about it. The fact is that the knife and fork are well designed. And if the detail is a harmonious blend of shape, color and material, that's when they bring pleasure and become desirable everyday utensils.</p>



<p>It is utterly wrong to think that designers live in their own detached world, says Bigler. Good design arises in everyday life and only works if you keep both feet on the ground and remain inquisitive. You must be able to tune into everything going on around you with all your senses. Even assuming the details are boring, this means watching intently and learning how something develops, changes or gives way to something new. Only by noticing such details can you understand the meaning and purpose of an item and explore new possibilities. The sort of details that may change something in a big way. This cannot be produced on a computer, it happens in the mind, maybe a hundred times, maybe more -  only then can you feed the parameters needed to solve a problem into the computer.</p>



<p>It's obviously important to have meetings with engineers and marketing strategies, says Bigler. Engineers will point out the limitations, physical ones for example, and marketing strategies turn on the money supply - and resources and time with it. You have to understand this first. In order to create anything new, however, you must start from scratch, break free of any requirements and restrictions and focus on the challenge with a clear goal in mind. Little by little, being cautious, but determined. You will be pushed to your limits at the same time. It will happen in your mind first, then 1:1 on paper, on the computer later and finally in your gut. Yes, in your gut! The gut instinct is enormously important for exploring the boundaries between reason and desire, efficiency and safety, beauty and feasibility. Only then can you incorporate all the requirements arising from the meeting. What may be a totally crazy solution then becomes somewhat less crazy - but it's still crazy! Crazy in a good way, a very good way even.</p>



<p>Design does not stand alone. Christof Bigler looks at design in terms of the jobs it has to do. A tool such as a drill must be ergonomically designed to sit in the hand for precision work. As for a shoe, not only does it have to be an attractive accessory, it must also be comfortable, make it possible to walk with minimum effort and have a functional design in terms of orthopedics. The design of a car is a different matter altogether.</p>

<p>The Lamborghini Aventador
The Lamborghini Aventador is a supercar, and that should be evident in the design. This car is a really good example: it doesn't hide its awesome power, the design emphasizes its aggressiveness and if an appropriate color comes into play, orange for instance, then we have perfection.
Design has a completely different job to do in architecture. Architecture must be esthetically pleasing, blend in with its surroundings and make a mark, whilst the structural design must be functional. You should enjoy being inside a building and the exterior must be lovely enough to stay in your memory forever. For Christof Bigler, the Brazilian architect Oscar Niemeyer is the best example of this. Niemeyer left his mark on the 20th century: with his bold and unconventional designs he went down in history as the man who revolutionized modern architecture.</p>

<p>At work he is his own harshest critic, says Bigler the designer. Everything else is private. His life is free of constraints and he revels in this freedom as Christof, whether as a father to his two sons Fabio and Timo, or as a member of a steel band... he loves Latin jazz. Or he clears his head by doing sport, breathing in the fresh air or simply socializing with friends. Having space is enormously important to creativity, he says. Only a balanced mind is capable of reconciling strict directives at work with a natural sensibility in order to create something genuinely original in line with the pleasure principle: good design for example.</p>
</section>