---
layout: post
title: Stromer tracks down thieves by GPS
---

<h5 class="post">Stromer tracks down thieves by GPS</h5>

<section class="rtcl">
<p>Evelo e-bike stolen in Brussels located in London within 24 hours</p>

<p>The story reported by a couple from Munich’s Aubing district almost sounds like it has the making of a film script: on April 8 they discovered to their dismay that their basement had been broken into and their new e-bike worth almost 9,000 euros, along with its charger, had been stolen. But the cards were stacked against the professional thieves, because the modern e-bikes are equipped with a special security system via GPS and smartphone connection, and can help to recover stolen bikes with impressive speed. Thanks to this special theft protection and the determination of the owners to recover their property, the high-end e-bike was tracked down in London within 24 hours of its theft in Brussels and handed back to its owners.</p>

<p>The offense took place during the night of Thursday/Friday, when Susanne and Martin L. (name altered) discovered on the morning of April 8th that someone had broken into their basement and stolen the new Evelo E-bike complete with its charger. The police forensics people soon established that someone had been spying out the couple’s basement, and passed on the information to the next investigating body. But the e-bike itself also kicked in, because it has a special app that on the one hand helps to prevent theft and on the other hand brings an actual theft to light more quickly. Martin L. straight away activated the theft mode from his smartphone to report the bike to the Stromer system as stolen. This information is then sent back to the e-bike, which responds by triggering a permanent flashing of its lights that cannot be switched off, and also by blocking the drive mechanism; thanks to GPS and the smartphone connection, its current location is also revealed. </p>
</section>