---
layout: post
title: The bike in an urban setting
---

<h5 class="post">The bike in an urban setting</h5>



 <section class="rtcl">
 <p>This vision is not a fantasy idea for the distant future: this vision is gradually becoming a reality today. Although Alexander Tschäppät, Mayor of Bern, takes a pragmatic approach to mobility in towns, he says that planning must be undertaken with a long-term view and implemented with both courage and caution. Large conurbations have undergone great change. They used to consist of mixed districts, of living space as well as commercial and industrial zones. Today, towns mainly consist of living space with apartments, relaxation areas, social infrastructure, cultural meeting places and shopping malls.</p>

 <p>The needs of passenger and freight transport have changed enormously during this process of development and the car has gradually been replaced by other modes of transport. Harmful emissions from cars are hardly an issue now, with cars becoming cleaner and cleaner. Those of the future will actually be emission-free. The real problem is space. The required infrastructure is simply no longer available. In future the car will no longer be an option for private transport in the inner cities and cars will be left on the outskirts in park-and-ride facilities.</p>

 <p>Mobility in an urban setting needs a properly functioning infrastructure...</p>

  <p>Not only do we need town planners - effective mobility in an urban environment also requires cooperation between policy makers, citizens and business. The primary responsibility of a town is to ensure that the public transport system functions properly. Aspects of this include intelligent infrastructure planning, efficient traffic routing and comfortable rolling stock. Finally, planning should also take into account the dispersion of private transport by providing infrastructure and an attractive layout of streets and roads for non-motorized traffic.</p>

 <p>...and a change of thinking</p>

 <p>The future of urban mobility is shaping up to be slower. There will be an escape from hectic rush and senseless haste. The living space in inner cities is becoming a stress-free zone. The infrastructure is designed and planned to provide easy access to public transport within a walking distance of three minutes, with passengers able to choose from a range of services to find the fastest route from A to B. Individuals also have access to an attractive infrastructure suitable for non-motorized transport. This includes the conventional bicycle and the contemporary and attractive e-bike or, for short journeys, modern scooters or perhaps a luxury Segway.</p>

 <p>For the young generation in particular, this involves a change of thinking or a reversal of old habits. It is precisely among the young generation that we see a willingness to do without private local transport. They prefer to use public transport, even if it means waiting times or longer journeys. Saving or losing time is of no concern to them as they would spend this time on their mobile communication devices, surfing the web on mobile phones and keeping in touch on social media.</p>

 <p>Bern: 140,000 inhabitants, 100,000 bicycles and e-bikes</p>

 <p>The bicycle plays the leading role in private local transport. Not only is it efficient, practical and cheap, it is also available in many different versions ranging from folding bikes through mountain bikes to elegant or sporty road bikes - and e-bikes of course. According to statistics, there are 100,000 bicycles for 140,000 inhabitants in the city of Bern alone. </p>

 

 <p>Attractive models - especially of e-bikes - suitable for commuter transport will be in demand in the urban environments of the future. E-bikes have become part of the system in urban mobility, but they are still very expensive. This is a challenge for manufacturers. Commuters don't need luxury models, they just want simple, reliable, no-frills technology. It must be safe and have enough power and range - and it should also look good. Electromobility, especially the e-bike, has enormous potential in the urban transport market.</p>

 <p>The slowdown must be so attractive that it becomes a matter of course</p>
 </section>